# Reddit-Political-Memes

This repository contains different use cases of the HuggingFace dataset `mo-mittal/reddit_political_subs` as part of a partial requirement for STA 663 taught by Dr Ouwen Huang, Duke University. I created that dataset using data from [Pushshift]([url](https://the-eye.eu/redarcs/)) which is a social media data collection, analysis, and archiving platform that has collected Reddit data since 2015, offering real-time updates as well as historical data dating back to Reddit's inception. It contains large files (at both post and comment levels) that I filtered by year, popularity, and subreddits (to focus on political subreddits). 

My project was inspired by my motivation to study political homophiles. I wanted to explore memes, in particular, as they are a very effective way of both, communicating information and influencing public opinion due to their viral nature. I aimed to determine how effective memes are at reflecting and reinforcing political ideologies among different groups. Additionally, the project drew inspiration from a research paper on deep learning that investigates meme generation using deep learning. This paper, available at [Dank Learning: Generating Memes Using Deep
Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1806.04510), uses a pre-trained Inception-v3 network to return an image embedding which is passed to an attention-based deep-layer LSTM model producing the caption. They use manual validation methods to check for accuracy which I was unable to do for my project given the time constraints. In future work, I'd like to explore a more diverse collection of political subreddits' memes to see how they influence different political ideologies and how that contributes to virality (and even candidate/ politician popularity on Reddit).
